# Characteristics, Beauty and Crowning of the Bride

> I have compared thee, O my love, to a company of 
horses in Pharaoh's chariots.Thy cheeks are 
comely with rows of jewels, thy neck with chains of gold. 
We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver.
Song of Solomon 1:9-11


The Characteristics of the Bride


Song of Solomon 1:9 
I have compared thee, O my love, to a company of horses in Pharaoh's chariots.


Her Swiftness


Hebrews 12:1
Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,


Her Understanding


Her Value


Psalm 116:15 
Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
(Costly are the death of God’s saints.)
 
Her Beauty


Her Obedience


Ephesians 4:3,13
Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ:








The Beauty of the Bride


Song of Solomon 1:10 
Thy cheeks are comely with rows of jewels, thy neck with chains of gold.


The Jewels Are Symbolic of Grace


Galatians 5:22,23 
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,
Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.


Humility


I Peter 3:4 
But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.


Patience


Faith


Gold Chains Are Symbolic of Truth


John 8:32 
And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.


Righteousness – Truth


II Peter 1:4 
Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.


The Crowning of the Bride

https://soundcloud.com/bible_exchange/song-of-solomon-4


Song of Solomon 1:11
 We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver.










The Trinity is Involved – They’re Concerned About Us


We are living in a day were it seems like the devil does not care what he gets you tangled up in as long as he gets you off the truth. You talk about salvation, the blood, or repentance you are talking about absolute essentials. You MUST be born again.


John 3:7
 Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.


When it comes to an issue that will not effect your salvation, you do not have to tear down your whole house to prove your point. There are a lot of folks tied up with the fact that Jesus is the whole thing. To believe in ‘Jesus Only’ in order to be saved, is not a doctrinal absolute.


In the crowing of the Bride, all three Persons are involved. 


“The Father thought it, the Son Bought it, and the Holy Spirit Wrought it.”


Preparing


Whether in initial, progressive, or complete state of salvation, preparation is needed. The Father is involved in finding us, convicting us, and convincing us to accept Him. That is not the complete work, but all along the way, the Father is preparing, the Son is preparing, and the Holy Ghost is preparing us. In all the affairs of Heaven, God is much concerned about us as individuals.


Matthew 10:30 
But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.


How much more is God concerned with our soul? The Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost are concerned about you. 


Perfecting


A lot of people talk about perfection in the world to come. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost are all involved in the Word. This Word is God’s Divine, infallible Truth. In this Word, He has given five ministries for the perfecting of the saints. Will there be need of these ministries in Heaven? So, where are these ministries needed but here? The perfecting of the saints will take place here! God expects it of us and has given us provision to make it.




Ephesians 4:11-13 
And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;
 For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ:
 Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ:


Presenting


In a wedding, the Bride is given the greater honor.  She is brought in by her father. 


Ephesians 5:27 
That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.


The Crown


Song of Solomon 1:11 
We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver.


Border – tore – means turn – crown


He is not talking about something that will set on your head, but Divine truths and laws. This crown is something that He is molding and fashioning in our lives; this is something spiritual. Not just a crown for you, but is going to make you a crown! He is going to make something out of your life that far surpasses anything that is earthly and natural.


Gold – Divinity 


I Peter 1:3-5 
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
 To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you,
 Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.




II Peter 1:4 
Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.


God is going to bring about in these last days a tremendous revelation of His Word that will produce a perfected people. There are multitudes of people in the church today who do not know the first thing about growing up. Sugar will eat up your energy—sweetness is no good for you, but will make you soft.


Having His Divine nature, we do not have to back down to the devil. We are not a foot mat for the devil to walk on. We can resist him!


James 4:7 
Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.


 Isaiah 30:10 
Which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits:


Smooth things will not strengthen you, but the truth is what will help us. The truth is what will build and make us what we ought to be for God.


II Peter 1:4 
Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.


Studded with Silver - Redemption


Studded – embossed


We become partakers of the Divine nature only because of the merits of Christ—through His redemptive work on the cross.


Revelation 4:10 
The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying,


1Corinthians 15:10 
But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.


Revelation 3:10,11 
Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.
 Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown.


The devil takes our crown by hindering our faith. Everything we get from God is through faith. There are going to be some that won’t hold on. You have got to get a hold of it first and then hold on to it! 
